---
title: "Design and Fabrication Optical Field Manipulation and Detection Devices with Polarization Holography"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2023-08-21-Design-and-Fabrication-Optical-Field-Manipulation-and-Detection-Devices-with-Polarization-Holography
venue: "CIOP2024, No.2024-000436"
date: 2024-08-11
location: "Xi'an, ShanXi, CN"
---

Holography, which records and reconstructs light fields, has revolutionized optical technologies and led to numerous innovations. Holographic optical elements (HOEs) have become crucial due to their compactness, lightweight nature, and ease of fabrication. These advantages make HOEs valuable in telecommunications, data storage, and imaging systems. Polarization holography, an advanced extension of traditional holography, enhances light field manipulation by incorporating the polarization dimension. By controlling amplitude, phase, and polarization, it enables comprehensive modulation of light in the spatial domain. The resultant HOEs offer enhanced functionality for precise light field control.
Exploring the fundamental principles of polarization holography, we delve into tensor theory and its unique characteristics. Photoquenchable polymethyl methacrylate (PQ-PMMA) materials are detailed for their suitability in fabricating HOEs. Several practical devices are fabricated using these methods. For light source generation and beam splitting, circular polarization generators and polarization beam splitters are developed as scalar light field modulation devices. To broaden light field control, vortex beam generators, vector beam generators, and vector vortex beam generators are created as structural light field modulation devices. Additionally, circular polarization detectors and arbitrary polarization light detectors are developed for accurate light field state analysis.
In conclusion, results show that polarization holography achieves comprehensive control over amplitude, phase, and polarization of light fields. Phenomena such as faithful reconstruction and null reconstruction effects, unseen in traditional holography, are observed, indicating it is significantly advances light field control, enabling sophisticated optical devices and promising further advancements in quantum computing, imaging systems, and optical communications.
